genai_graph/ekg/IDEAS.md, before:

# Ideas around evolution of the Tk and Bleuprint

## Better warnings
 sometile warnings_list.append(), sometime logger.warning... 

## Better HTML visualisation



- Use G.V()


## Better HTML visualisation
- User can 
  - select the types of nodes and relationsips

- Use G.V()

## Hybrid


## Better React with Agent Midleware


- Use LangChain Midlewares to print tool calls in Streamlit (like in CLI)


# UI for Graph Query
Create a Streamlit page to  visualize the KG, and run queries on it (either in natural language, or in Cypher).
Look at CLI commmands in /home/tcl/prj/genai-graph/genai_graph/core/commands_ekg.py (query_ekg, cypher, export_html).
Vizualize HTML as in /home/tcl/prj/genai-blueprint/genai_blueprint/webapp/pages/demos/cognee_KG.py

# Doc  Manager
Create a repository "doc_manager" with files to manage docs (import, export, index, ...).
The backend is a relational database, handled by SQLAlchemy .
There are 2 tables: 
   - One for documents, with title, path, hash-code of the document, language (english by default), date, the content itself (in Markdown), metadata (JSON) 
   - One for Chunks; with fields for the chunk, the embeddings (a vector)
 and metadata. The table name encore the name of the embeddings (as the size of vector depends of it). 
 Use the pg_vectorstore langchain library, and possibly code from /home/tcl/prj/genai-tk/genai_tk/extra/pgvector_factory.py
Commands to load ....


 ...


 ## better LLM support

 Allow LiteLLM defined LLM to be created in genai_tk.core.llm_factory  by LlmFactory.
 If the pattern contains / and is the form azure_ai/mistral-document-ai-2505, or openrouter/google/palm-2-chat-bison, then return a langchain object of class 'ChatLiteLLM' (from package langchain-litellm).
 Call get_llm_provider to check that the model is correct (or better API if you know). Try to hace a nice code
 structure for maintainability. 
 Check with : uv run cli core llm -i 'tell me a jole' -m openrouter/google/openai/gpt-4.1-mini

LiteLLM









## Better HTML visualisation
- User can 
  - select the types of nodes and relationsips

- Use G.V()

## Hybrid search extension to genai_tk/core/embeddings_store.py
- use BM25S + Spacy (but configurable)
- call it RAG store ? 

## Optimize Markdown chunking
- A tester


# Import tables
- new command add-table

LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM 'file:///data.csv' AS row
MATCH (existingNode {opportunity: toInteger(row.opportunity)})
CREATE (newNode:Person {name: row.name, age: toInteger(row.age)})
CREATE (existingNode)-[:RELATED_TO]->(newNode)


   - 
- new command relink


# Text2Cypher
- possibly Prune the schema with https://kuzudb.github.io/blog/post/improving-text2cypher-for-graphrag-via-schema-pruning/#pruned-graph-schema-results

## ReAct agents
- tools: 
    - graph_search()  (or cypher_run()  so the schema is known by agent)
    - doc_search()  (from Chonkie)
    - node_search()

## better llm / embeddings naming


## Better 'rag' commands
- pass a configurable chunker
https://docs.chonkie.ai/oss/pipelines 

##  Better KG


# To Test :
- ``` export KG_CONFIG="db_only"; cli kg delete -f ; cli kg create ; cli kg schema --no-enums; cli kg export-html ; cli kg info```

- ```uv run cli baml extract $ONEDRIVE/prj/atos-kg/rainbow-md/cnes-venus-tma.md --function ExtractRainbow --force```

- ```uv run cli baml run FakeRainbow -i "Project for CNES; Marc Ferrer as sales lead in Atos team" --kvstore-key fake_cnes_1 --force```


- ```cli baml run FakeArchitectureJson -i "IT platform for CNES with 3-tier, Java based"  --kvstore-key fake-cnes-1```


uv run cli kg delete -f ; uv run cli kg add-doc --key fake-cnes-1 --subgraph ArchitectureDocument


uv run cli kg delete -f ; uv run cli kg add-doc --key cnes-venus-tma --g ReviewedOpportunity ; uv run cli kg add-doc --key fake-cnes-1 -g ArchitectureDocument; uv run cli kg export-html``

# Misc

Use https://github.com/GrahamDumpleton/wrapt for @once


# Doc to add in KG
- Sales presentations describing references (case studies)
- L1/L2 Offerings (from Nessie code ? GRD code ? ) 
- GTM conversations / BL Offerings ? 
- Win / Loss review
- RFQ
- Architecture document
- Eval criteria in RFQ (from Bruno)
- Dashboard ? 
- ....




# OLD OLD #


## Extra Data

Today the graph is built from BAML genererated Pydantic objects, except for a special case 'metadata' added to top classes. 
We want to generalise the mecanism of adding fields to a node that are not in BAML (that is used for document parsing). Our idea is to have a Pydantic class that will contain the extra fields.

For that, I've added a field "extra_classes" in class GraphNode. I's  a list of Pydantic classes that inherit an abstract class 'ExtraFields' with a abstract method 'get_data' that you should refine and implement in some descendant.

The content returned by get_data should be stored as a field of type Struct in the node, whose name is the name of the class (in snakecase).

I think that 'get_data' should be called in merge_node_in_graph or related functions, to get the extended list of fields to be inserted in the node.
Adapt parameters and typing. Idealy 'get_data' should return an instance of the concrete class to enfore type safety, but you can return a dict. 
Adap callers. Possibly refactor code  to make it clean, generic and maintenable. 

Fist use case is to change the hard-coded 'metadata' field by new class 'FileMetadata". (I've added extra_classes=[FileMetadata] in the top classes). You shoud generate a node struc field 'file_metadata" with a field 'source'  (similar to old 'metadata').  Remove old hard-coded stuff and refactor using the mechanism described above (notably implement the 'get_data' method). 

Second use case is to implement a WinLoss struct in the 'Opportunity' nodes. It will later be coded by getting information from the database.  Today, just return fake data (but ensure we have access to the opportunity id and other fields)

you can test using 'uv run cli kg delete -f ; uv run cli kg add-doc --key rainbow-cnes-venus-tma  ; uv run cli kg add-doc --key add-fake-cnes-1 -g ArchitectureDocument'

Use 'uv run cli kg schema' to check the new fields are there (file_metadata.source, win_loss.result, win_loss.reason,..), with their description

Enforce typing whenever possible (avoid Any...)

You can test with :  
uv run cli kg delete -f ; uv run cli kg add-doc --key rainbow-cnes-venus-tma --key rainbow-fake-cnes-1 -g ReviewedOpportunity ; uv run cli kg add-doc --key add-fake-cnes-1 -g ArchitectureDocument; uv run cli kg export-html

uv run cli kg info
uv run cli kg schema  (check the descriptions are there !)

Commit message:

Better warning log with KG context

genai_graph/ekg/IDEAS.md, after:

# Ideas around evolution of the Tk and Bleuprint

## Better warnings

Improve warnings message during graph creation: sometime there's call to logger.warning(), other time there's call to  warnings_list.append(). The last approach is the right one, and should be generalized to all involved modules. 
So collect warnigs along all the KG creation process, and display them nicely and the end in the top 'kg create' CLI command. Pass on object with these list of warnigs allog the process chain. Use it also to pass information that might be usefull, like the name of the KG configuration and associated dict. 


## Better HTML visualisation



- Use G.V()


## Better HTML visualisation
- User can 
  - select the types of nodes and relationsips

- Use G.V()

## Hybrid


## Better React with Agent Midleware


- Use LangChain Midlewares to print tool calls in Streamlit (like in CLI)


# UI for Graph Query
Create a Streamlit page to  visualize the KG, and run queries on it (either in natural language, or in Cypher).
Look at CLI commmands in /home/tcl/prj/genai-graph/genai_graph/core/commands_ekg.py (query_ekg, cypher, export_html).
Vizualize HTML as in /home/tcl/prj/genai-blueprint/genai_blueprint/webapp/pages/demos/cognee_KG.py

# Doc  Manager
Create a repository "doc_manager" with files to manage docs (import, export, index, ...).
The backend is a relational database, handled by SQLAlchemy .
There are 2 tables: 
   - One for documents, with title, path, hash-code of the document, language (english by default), date, the content itself (in Markdown), metadata (JSON) 
   - One for Chunks; with fields for the chunk, the embeddings (a vector)
 and metadata. The table name encore the name of the embeddings (as the size of vector depends of it). 
 Use the pg_vectorstore langchain library, and possibly code from /home/tcl/prj/genai-tk/genai_tk/extra/pgvector_factory.py
Commands to load ....


 ...


 ## better LLM support

 Allow LiteLLM defined LLM to be created in genai_tk.core.llm_factory  by LlmFactory.
 If the pattern contains / and is the form azure_ai/mistral-document-ai-2505, or openrouter/google/palm-2-chat-bison, then return a langchain object of class 'ChatLiteLLM' (from package langchain-litellm).
 Call get_llm_provider to check that the model is correct (or better API if you know). Try to hace a nice code
 structure for maintainability. 
 Check with : uv run cli core llm -i 'tell me a jole' -m openrouter/google/openai/gpt-4.1-mini

LiteLLM









## Better HTML visualisation
- User can 
  - select the types of nodes and relationsips

- Use G.V()

## Hybrid search extension to genai_tk/core/embeddings_store.py
- use BM25S + Spacy (but configurable)
- call it RAG store ? 

## Optimize Markdown chunking
- A tester


# Import tables
- new command add-table

LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM 'file:///data.csv' AS row
MATCH (existingNode {opportunity: toInteger(row.opportunity)})
CREATE (newNode:Person {name: row.name, age: toInteger(row.age)})
CREATE (existingNode)-[:RELATED_TO]->(newNode)


   - 
- new command relink


# Text2Cypher
- possibly Prune the schema with https://kuzudb.github.io/blog/post/improving-text2cypher-for-graphrag-via-schema-pruning/#pruned-graph-schema-results

## ReAct agents
- tools: 
    - graph_search()  (or cypher_run()  so the schema is known by agent)
    - doc_search()  (from Chonkie)
    - node_search()

## better llm / embeddings naming


## Better 'rag' commands
- pass a configurable chunker
https://docs.chonkie.ai/oss/pipelines 

##  Better KG


# To Test :
- ``` export KG_CONFIG="db_only"; cli kg delete -f ; cli kg create ; cli kg schema --no-enums; cli kg export-html ; cli kg info```

- ```uv run cli baml extract $ONEDRIVE/prj/atos-kg/rainbow-md/cnes-venus-tma.md --function ExtractRainbow --force```

- ```uv run cli baml run FakeRainbow -i "Project for CNES; Marc Ferrer as sales lead in Atos team" --kvstore-key fake_cnes_1 --force```


- ```cli baml run FakeArchitectureJson -i "IT platform for CNES with 3-tier, Java based"  --kvstore-key fake-cnes-1```


uv run cli kg delete -f ; uv run cli kg add-doc --key fake-cnes-1 --subgraph ArchitectureDocument


uv run cli kg delete -f ; uv run cli kg add-doc --key cnes-venus-tma --g ReviewedOpportunity ; uv run cli kg add-doc --key fake-cnes-1 -g ArchitectureDocument; uv run cli kg export-html``

# Misc

Use https://github.com/GrahamDumpleton/wrapt for @once


# Doc to add in KG
- Sales presentations describing references (case studies)
- L1/L2 Offerings (from Nessie code ? GRD code ? ) 
- GTM conversations / BL Offerings ? 
- Win / Loss review
- RFQ
- Architecture document
- Eval criteria in RFQ (from Bruno)
- Dashboard ? 
- ....




# OLD OLD #


## Extra Data

Today the graph is built from BAML genererated Pydantic objects, except for a special case 'metadata' added to top classes. 
We want to generalise the mecanism of adding fields to a node that are not in BAML (that is used for document parsing). Our idea is to have a Pydantic class that will contain the extra fields.

For that, I've added a field "extra_classes" in class GraphNode. I's  a list of Pydantic classes that inherit an abstract class 'ExtraFields' with a abstract method 'get_data' that you should refine and implement in some descendant.

The content returned by get_data should be stored as a field of type Struct in the node, whose name is the name of the class (in snakecase).

I think that 'get_data' should be called in merge_node_in_graph or related functions, to get the extended list of fields to be inserted in the node.
Adapt parameters and typing. Idealy 'get_data' should return an instance of the concrete class to enfore type safety, but you can return a dict. 
Adap callers. Possibly refactor code  to make it clean, generic and maintenable. 

Fist use case is to change the hard-coded 'metadata' field by new class 'FileMetadata". (I've added extra_classes=[FileMetadata] in the top classes). You shoud generate a node struc field 'file_metadata" with a field 'source'  (similar to old 'metadata').  Remove old hard-coded stuff and refactor using the mechanism described above (notably implement the 'get_data' method). 

Second use case is to implement a WinLoss struct in the 'Opportunity' nodes. It will later be coded by getting information from the database.  Today, just return fake data (but ensure we have access to the opportunity id and other fields)

you can test using 'uv run cli kg delete -f ; uv run cli kg add-doc --key rainbow-cnes-venus-tma  ; uv run cli kg add-doc --key add-fake-cnes-1 -g ArchitectureDocument'

Use 'uv run cli kg schema' to check the new fields are there (file_metadata.source, win_loss.result, win_loss.reason,..), with their description

Enforce typing whenever possible (avoid Any...)

You can test with :  
uv run cli kg delete -f ; uv run cli kg add-doc --key rainbow-cnes-venus-tma --key rainbow-fake-cnes-1 -g ReviewedOpportunity ; uv run cli kg add-doc --key add-fake-cnes-1 -g ArchitectureDocument; uv run cli kg export-html

uv run cli kg info
uv run cli kg schema  (check the descriptions are there !)
